He was born in the countryside / the provinces / the blameless sticks
         in ( false) Waltersdorf (recte) Dresden
         in what is now Czechoslovakia / the Czech Republic (laughs) / Czechia, if it
 ever catches on
         what's it to you.
Stripped of his East German citizenship, he fled
         on foot with a handful of pop music cassettes
         in a pantechnicon mit Kind und Kegel
         in pandemonium
         nach vorne
         cool as you like, in an S-Bahn from the Russian Sector, in the clothes he  stood up in.
Germany (thus Goethe's friend Mme de Stael) is the land of poets and thinkers
         der Dichter und Denker
         or of judges and executioners
         der Richter und Henker
         or of Richter and Penck.
He drew innocent geometrical shapes
         boxed shirts / boxer shorts / boxy suits
         men without women
         hairy heroes of the Thirty Years' War / lansquenets / strangely fibrous figures  a bit like those New Yorker caveman cartoons
         empty Renaissance helmets / mostly US fighter jets
         the suicides of Stammheim.
He took the name of an American boxing promoter
         a German Ice Age geologist
         the village of his birth
         the one he was given.
His first work to really catch on / be banned / get him in trouble / cause widespread  revulsion was Onkel Rudi
         Die grosse Nacht im Eimer
         Hohere Wesen befahlen: rechte obere Ecke schwarz malen! / oyez, oyez, oyez, 
Politburo decree: upper right-hand corner in ebony!
         ohne Titel
         a mural in the cafeteria of the Hygiene Museum, since painted over.
He wound up in Dusseldorf
         Berlin, doh!
         la bella Italia
         tax-exempt Ireland of Boll- and Beuys-ful memory, where the earth apples bloom.
His paintings were fuzzy geometry
         like the country, ripped across the middle
         upside down (especially effective: the trees)
         shoveled out of the window
         later withdrawn.
His favored technique involved stick figures
         Polke dots
         out of focus grisaille photographs
         scribbling on his pictures
         woodcuts a la Durer.
The numerals on his graphics represent a recent shopping bill
         an attempt to disconcert the onlooker / ostranenie
         amortization
         bar code
         some other code
         Durchnummerierung.
He studied with Joseph Beuys
         the least doctrinaire painter he could find
         for the best part of ten years, in East and West, so that everything canceled  itself out
         what's it to you
         he didn't.