In predawn dark, a rat falling from a rafter is a dollop,
wind a whir, and suddenly I'm remembering my mother 
teaching me to bake her hot water sponge cake.
How we whipped the egg whites with the electric mixer
until stiff peaks formed. How she warned me not to allow
a single thread of yolk to taint the white, or the cake
would fail. To fold white into yolk-sugar-flour was slow, 
patient. She let me carve a wedge with the rubber spatula,
drop it to the batter's surface, then lift from the bowl's bottom
up and over the dollop, turning it in. Warned me
never to beat or mix or even stir--the cake would fall. 
Once, dinking around, I stuck a wooden spoon into
the still-whirring beaters, bent the metal, splintered
the spoon into the batter. Once I cut her grandmother's precious
lace for a doll's clothes, and she cried, the savaged pieces
draped across her wrists. So many times I tried to shove
my peasant feet into her dainty pumps, hand into her evening
gloves. One spoon at a time, that first thin layer drawn across
the airy white forming a little hill. Folding only
just enough. The batter growing lighter by increments.
It was mostly space we folded in, taming down
the cloy. It was never so good as then, licked off
the finer, the cake itself, to me, disappointing, layers
smeared with homemade jam, topped with a stiff merengue.
Never so good as then, her instructing, trying to domesticate
my impertinence, teach me a little grace, me resisting,
the sweet on my tongue dissolving so easily
in that state of matter. Never so good as straight from 
the Pyrex bowl. Never so gentle as the slide of batter
into an angel food pan. The rest up to her, what she
created from the baked version, brown on top and bottom. 
Here I am, decades later sitting uner the halogen
of a full moon, and that moment, which was many
folded into one, is so pure and specific, the sugar sharp
on my tongue, the spatula pushing as if through 
an undertow. My mother taught me to fold. Never so
sweet as now. We were incorporating lightness
into a deep bowl. As some bird--probably an owl
out hunting--chacks its was across the lawn,
sounding like a key chain, and now the garden sprinkler
comes on, so I know it's 6:00 a.m. There's the first hint
of dawn slow-dissolving one more night. This is a fifty-
year-old love. It's heavy, so I fold in moonlight, the sound
of water spattered on leaves. Dim stars, bright moon--
our lives. The cake imperfect, but finished. 
--12.17.2013