I swear on the melody of trumpet vines,
ants feasting through animal crackers, Burt's Bees,
Tyler Perry movies, my daddy's .38 slug, footie-socks
inside high-top Jordans, disidentification, drag
queens, blond dreadlocks, headstones
salt-and-peppering the grass, vanilla wafers
in banana pudding, Zeus-swan chasing,
blunt-guts, sharp thumbnails, keloid scars,
cash-only bars, R&B songs, on what the pot
called the kettle. I put that on my mama's good
hair, on playing solitaire with a phantom
limb, the white woman I go home to,
my auntie's face when she says: You know
he always loved them pink toes. I put that on
everything, on the signifiers I gobble up,
candlesticks blown out by whistling lips.
I put that on dervishing records scratched
on down-beats, empty beehives,
fresh-fade head-slaps, hand claps, bamboo shoots,
liminality, mestizos, the purple-black crook
of my arm, split sternums, on You can't save
him now. I put that on skinny jeans, get rich
quick schemes--Gotta get that C.R.E.A.M. Know what
I mean?--freckled black faces, leafless trees
throwing up gang signs, phlegm hocked
onto streets. I swear I catch more stones
than catfish. I lose more collard greens than sleep. I think
nothing is here but us darkies, high yellows, red bones,
cocoa butters. Someone, no, everyone has jungle fever.
Don't touch my forehead. Blond
as moonshine, mute trombone choking.
I put that on Instagram. Post me to the endless chain
of signifiers. Strawberry gashes on kneecaps, Let me
get some dap, Newports, Kool's, and folding
chairs instead of barstools, that white drool
caked on your face. Mommy please wipe away
the veil. I thought I was passing into the eye
of the streetlamp. I swear. I promise on frondless
palm trees, long pinkie nails, sixteen years, serve eight,
and Miss Addie's red beans and rice, Ol' Dirty Bastard
and the brother on the Cream of Wheat box. It don't mean
a thing if it don't buckle your knees. Open your hands.
I'll give you a song, give you the Holy Ghost
from a preacher's greasy palm--When he hit me, I didn't
fall, felt eyes jabbing me, tagging me. Oh no he didn't!--
give you the om from the small of her back.
I put that on double consciousness, multiple jeopardy,
and performativity. Please make sure my fetters
and manacles are tight. Yea baby, I like bottomless
bullet chambers. I swear on the creation of Uncle Tom--
some white woman's gospel. She got blue eyes? I love
me some--on Josiah Henson, the real Uncle Tom, on us still
believing in Uncle Tom. Lord, have mercy!
Put that on the black man standing on my shoulders holding
his balls. Put that on the black man I am--I am not--on
the black man I wish I was.