Oh! Hucklebuck! Treat her right! Yes, you, Text-Deft James. He says, "I swear by the mud below my feet. When I read, I don't grind. A great text has great beauty. A great horse, too, has great beauty. Horses, equine, all this Alan from Equus-esque worship at the altar, but then comes the eye spike. Like Odin. I guess we always come back to the eyes. They beat the horse to flies, above, inside, around. They write papers that grind horses into dog grub ... "
   Sestina: "My rugged poetic sensibilities allow me to embrace 
extended metaphorical diction of disturbing, lurid carnage. But please, please. Spare your doggish death rattle. First dates occur once. Among the dates' participants, that is; e.g, me, you. So, if you will, ax the horse talk. I prefer rubbery arms, Espada's cockroaches, axes on frozen pond sludge. Sibilant rush. Gimme Yusef's Orpheus. Or Ferlinghetti from Coney Island to North Beach. Gimme Wislawa Szymborska (a name I can pronounce, FYI. RIP.)
Please.
Please, Text-Deft James.
Not equinicide. I've seen bearded ladies whisper acclaim, whimper shame. Devil nuns. I whisper a clipped utterance of the ineffable. The untied united. Not only ineffable, but tangible ... " (unsaid: I take my tongue, propelled by chemical soul, and I have a dirty, nasty, downright raunchy time with it. I'm talking sheets off the bed, candles tipped over, shower flooding the bathroom tile. T-shirt grimy from fun crust. That type of night. I, Sestina, won't share such thoughts. Instead --) " ... know my resurrected heart beats brick red. Know that I seek poetry in moose lodges, in homeless shelters, in candy shops. I do remember walking down Northern Blvd. with Granny J, begging for sour candy. Bears dipped in sugar: cherry, orange, lime mixed. Let's hover above this grass. As a kid, I went to Shea Stadium, waved a foam finger, and I was sure I'd marry a Met, maybe Al Leiter. As we stand here in front of this rustic pavilion, I'd like to ask you on another date. The Mets have few home games left, and I'd love some BBQ."